ace2015_Malaysia: Bodily narratives and transmedia narratives
======================================================================

:authors: Michael Cumming, Adam Tindale, Sara Diamond
:date: 2015-05-25

Abstract
--------------------------------------------------

Wearable devices are useful for recording biometric data. The ebbs, flows, mental and physical capacities of people's bodies inform their lives. When viewed over time, and organized into a useful format, this data can be seen as a type of personal narrative. It is not just a stream of unrelated data; it can be structured to have a 'narrative' arc. 

If bodies are capable of becoming sources of important narratives then to measure aspects of people's bodies, their mobility, their actions, their positioning in space and time, in a structured way, such narratives could possibly be useful for explaining people's lives to themselves.

The concept of transmedia provides a helpful structure for structuring biometric data. Transmedia enables narratives to span multiple devices and media channels. These narratives are authored by writers intentionally, with explicit and carefully engineered connection points between media platforms. Despite these transition points, the integrity of the narrative must remain intact. 

This research examines the connection between biometric data and how it might be structured into narratives similar to interactive transmedia narratives. 


Introduction
--------------------------------------------------

Both narrative and transmedia are important, though sometimes quite hidden, aspects of modern lives. Narratives, stories that people construct to explain their actions, inform all aspects of interior and social life. Internal narratives seem important for our psychological makeup. 

Certain points in any narrative that are more important than others. For instance, in a media property called Time Tremors (a series involving pre-teen children and their cosmically evil teacher) it is when ominous, supernatural things start happening to the protagonists, such as when toy bears start talking, bugs invade a classroom or when a so-called time tremor is triggered. These are special inflection points within the narrative that demand special attention. 

In a similar fashion there are also inflection points in internal narratives; these are points in people's lives when life takes a different direction. Wearable device are useful by their ability to measure and identify these important 'inflection points.'

In transmedia the viewer has some ability to exercise choice and to customize their narrative experience. Transmedia narratives must be designed to allow for this kind of non-prescribed navigation. This gives an inherent modularity to its content.

Narratives generated by bodies as they navigate the world is similar to narratives written to span multiple media venues: both are modular, customizable, and depend on the personal experiences of the viewers. 


Internal narratives
--------------------------------------------------

Internal narratives are ones were construct within ourselves. People create narratives by reflecting on the processes within their lives. This process requires that people engage conceptually and cognitively with their experience. People order and make sense of their lives in terms of narrative.


External transmedia
--------------------------------------------------

External narratives are written by writers to provide entertainment to viewers who wish to consume narratives on multiple devices and platforms. People enjoy consuming narratives authored by others that either help explain their world in some way, or simply entertain. Transmedia is concerned deeply with narrative: a plot line may start on a computer, migrate to a TV and end up on a smart phone. 

The transmedia idea is to encourage viewer engagement by minimizing the 'transaction costs' of switching devices. Tying together of multiple enriches the narrative, since it suggests narratives can sometimes change shape and venue yet still retain their overall direction and message, such as their narrative arc and characterization. The transmedia idea is an attempt to unify narrative and market it various venues, and to see its venue as a minor aspect that can be switched easily and casually. 


Bodily data -> narrative construction
--------------------------------------------------

For instance, wearable devices that monitor sleep patterns support people who may have difficult remembering their sleep patterns. These patterns are an important aspect of their overall health and wellness. In addition, sleep data influences self-reflection and sense of self. This cognitive aspect goes beyond physical health to include general mental health. 

An evidence, or sensor-based approach is since people's awareness of their own sleep patterns is limited since people are not awake when sleep occurs. Monitoring of basic bodily processes is a major market for wearable technology. 

Monitoring is one simple type of narrative construction using bodily processes. We propose that this process can be generalized for other bodily processes, such as heart rate, blood pressure and skin conductivity. we attempt to accurately measure these aspects of the body and from that data to construct meaningful narratives from them.


Aspects common to both types of narratives (transmedia and biometrically-derived)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- can be structured into modular parts
- has 'inflection' points where the narrative 'changes direction'
- has characters with motivations
- has a flow of events that increases and decreases in intensity
- There are certain points in any narrative that are more important than others. For instance, in the Time Tremors world it might be when supernatural things start happening, such as when toy bears start talking, bugs invade your space or you experience a Time Tremor. Some kind of vibrotactile feedback could be applied to the user to correspond to these narrative turning events. 


Claims of research 
--------------------------------------------------

- People are surrounded by both internal and external narratives: external ones authored by others, which people consume for entertainment and social integration, and ones people construct or generate internally to make sense of their lives. 
- Internal and external narratives interweave and intersect in people's thinking and behaviors. This is a primary way people create meaning in their lives. 

- people construct internal narratives to psychologically structure their lives
- people's bodies create data, which, if ordered in a certain way, can be viewed as a type of narrative
- authors of transmedia structure entertainment narratives to be consumed on multiple devices
- structuring bodily data for 
- the narratives that people, that people's bodies display, and those that people consume on various devices are integrate-able
- wearable devices with biometric sensors are ideal first step towards this integration process



Other random ideas
--------------------------------------------------

Narratives that are internally generated, ones which people have some agency in their creation, tend to be more significant in peoples lives compared to ones they receive externally and passively consume. 

Unified navigation => There exists one type of navigation (= traversing a graph structure) that enable players to explore:
	- a collection of artifacts (for collection games), 
	- a series of spaces or places (for geo-locative games)
	- narratives points in stories

Unified navigation =
	- one type of information structure (=graph)
	- various content embedded in this graph (artifacts, narratives, )

Things you can't omit from TT:
	- collections of artifacts distributed in space/plan
	- narratives = series of artifacts joined together 

non-trivial wearable requirements:
	- self-sufficient
	- thing of beauty on your body
	- inspires joyful movement
	- inspires authoring creativity
	- inspires depths of emotion

micro-choreography (gestures for expressive movement):
	- people want to express themselves through movement
	- designers of these movements (choreographers) want to design movements that are aesthetically pleasing and mean something
	- designing gestures for application purposes is a 
	- movements with aesthetic concerns are more desirable than arbitrary movements

transmedia:
	- canned transmedia content depends on the quality of transmedia
	- usually this transmedia content is designed for commercial purposes
	- people want to contribute their own movements into a suite of movements
	- movement designed for commercially inspired  are likely to be 




